## [To type or not to type: quantifying detectable bugs i n JavaScript](https://blog.acolyer.org/2017/09/19/to-type-or-not-to-type-quantifying-detectable-bugs-in-javascript/)

In my (limited) experience, typing sytsems have helped me catch a lot of typing-related errors when varied types were used, e.g. passing in a string as an argument when the lengthof the string was expected. The bugs that slipped through were often logical ones, where a typing ssytem couldn't be expected to check. This interests me because I often jump onto a typing system if it's offered, but sometimes I just want thing s to *work*. The type could be very unwieldy or it's a type that follows a certain pattern (ex. [sequence container](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/named_req/SequenceContainer)), that I would prefer the compiler/runtime to check automatically for me with type deduction. Without nice type deduction support, I've often thrown away soemthing just to make code function. I like typing in both senses.

---
*Soojin Choi*

The author reports on the typing bugs in JavaScript, being a dynamically typed language. It was interesting to read about the way bugs, which usually are just errors to most, can be used to learn and research. While I don’t have experience in Flow or TypeScript, I know that I have been taught to never rely on casting or converting types too much in languages where it is possible. But I also know that while I avoid the typical casting, I rely heavily on this dynamic typing without realizing it with every `”The answer is = ” + 3`. To end, the idea that just changing which language could help reduce bugs without even realizing brings to light the importance of how languages are designed and which ones we choose for the software we develop. 